# Guide-for-custom-Qt-MOC-code-generation-tool-for-Visual-Studio-C-
Guide for custom Qt MOC code generation tool for Visual Studio C++

1) Create visual studio property sheet with similar to the following info:

Property sheet name: Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64.props

User Macros:

root_Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64: C:\Qt\5.14.2\msvc2017_64
dlls_Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64: $(root_Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64)\bin
moc_exe: $(root_Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64)\bin\moc.exe
uic_exe: $(root_Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64)\bin\uic.exe

Include additional directories: $(root_Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64)\include

Linker additional library directories: $(root_Qt5p14p2_vs2017_x64)\lib

Linker input additional dependencies: Qt5Core.lib;Qt5Gui.lib;Qt5Widgets.lib


2) For any header "*.h" file that has the Q_OBJECT macro (and thus will need moc), go to Solution Explorer, and right click on the header file, and select Properties. Under Configuration Properties, click "General". On the right, under Item Type, choose "Custom Build Tool". Now click "Apply". Now, under "Configuration properties", another child called "Custom Build Tool" shall appear. Click the general tab. Now, for "command line" field, fill: "$(moc_exe) -o moc_%(Filename).cpp %(FullPath)". And in "Outputs" field, fill "moc_%(Filename).cpp". Finally for "Add outputs to Item Type", choose "C/C++ compiler". 

3) For any "*.ui" file that has been saved by Qt Designer, include into the Project using Add Item inside the "Header files" section in the Solution Explorer. Then right click on the ui file, and select Properties. Under Configuration Properties, click "General". On the right, under Item Type, choose "Custom Build Tool". Now click "Apply". Now, under "Configuration properties", another child called "Custom Build Tool" shall appear. Click the general tab. Now, for "command line" field, fill: "$(uic_exe) -o ui_%(Filename).h %(FullPath)". And in "Outputs" field, fill "ui_%(Filename).h". Finally for "Add outputs to Item Type", choose "C/C++ header". 

That's it. Now, I won't need any additional tools even including Qt Plugins for visual studio etc. Any time I want to use Qt, just add the property sheet and for each Q_OBJECT header or ui file, just see those same steps for each of them. 

In summary, after creating/adding the property sheet, the most important commands are:

Header file that contains Q_OBJECT:

(1) "command line": "$(moc_exe) -o moc_%(Filename).cpp %(FullPath)". 
(2) "Outputs": "moc_%(Filename).cpp"
(3) "Add outputs to Item Type": "C/C++ compiler". 

Ui file generated by Qt Designer:

(1) "command line": "$(uic_exe) -o ui_%(Filename).h %(FullPath)". 
(2) "Outputs": "ui_%(Filename).h"
(3) "Add outputs to Item Type": "C/C++ header". 



